QFI ONLINE Language Learner PLATFORM - PHASE 1 12 August 2010Project Initiation DocumentAuthor:Ed BiceSubmission Date:20 August 2010Document Number:M1Version:1.0Approvals:QFI Project ExecutiveApprovalDateMeedan Senior SupplierApproval Date approved - eabAugust 20, 20101.	Document Control 1.1.	Change RecordDateAuthorVersionChange Reference20AUG2010Ed Bice0.1Document created0.2Document updated1.0Updates confirmed1.2.	DistributionThis document has been distributed to: NameTitleDateMaggie SalemProject Executive/Senior User20AUG2010Ed BiceSenior Supplier20AUG2010Chris BlowDesign Lead Meedan20AUG2010Chris DubiaProject Manager QFI20AUG20101.3.	PurposeThis document intends to define the project, to form the basis for its management and the assessment of overall success. 1.4.	ContentsThis publication contains the following topics:TopicSee PageBackground3Project definition4Project Organisation Structure6Project Approach6Project Tolerances6Project Controls6Initial Project Plan7Project Quality Plan9Appendix A: Product Descriptions11Appendix B: Project Roles292.	BackgroundMEEDAN will build a web-based cross-language social networking platform and to provide associated services for QFI as further described in this Agreement and the PROPOSAL. The objective outcome is a cross-language (Arabic and English, with a design to accommodate other language) internet-based social learning platform and resource that will initially be deployed to facilitate ongoing learning and social connections between students and/or teachers from QFI’s cultural exchange program and teachers, students and other participants in QFI programs as determined by QFI, including without limitation all Software and Documentation related thereto (the “Social Learning Platform”). MEEDAN will provide the initial hosting of the platform as further set forth in this Agreement. It is intended that the resource developed and provided in accordance with this Agreement will become a solution that may be used and deployed by a range of third parties working to create online educational collaborations between teachers, students, classrooms, and schools.  3.	Project Definition3.1.	Project ObjectivesThe QFI platform project seeks to:* Generate a solid research deliverable based on user interviews that grounds the needs, use habits, technical skills, and o against project objectives. * Work with the QFI network of educational tech researchers and the QFI Tech advisory board to leverage and/or incorporate * Develop and deploy a networking solution for the QFI language learning classrooms* Develop and deploy a lightweight language learning/chat application for the language learning students (if our research supports this as viable)* Work with QFI to define phase 2 objectives and development approach to the larger Social Knowledge Network* Work in an open source software environment* Leverage Open Educational Resource (OER) 3.2.	Project ScopeThe software will be developed and hosted by Meedan, the program (the use of the technology and its relationship to existing programs) will be implemented by QFI.  As envisioned, the QFI Social Language Learning Platform will facilitate a range of digital collaborations between students and educators. While core technologies will benefit from our past and concurrent development efforts, we will approach the QFI development process with a view to the challenges and opportunities in engaging a young audience. We are particularly keen to model language learning games into the platform, creating incentive for learning by tapping into the sorts of digital interaction forms that younger users find most familiar and compelling.This project will seek to deliver a fully functional and documented platform to QFI at the close of an initial 12 months engagement. This cross-language social networking platform that will enable a diverse set of Arabic and English language learners from the QFI classroom exchange program to create content and exchange messages, develop and maintain relationships, and engage in ongoing learning beyond the scope of their classrooms. While the ultimate specification and solution will be user/client driven, we offer the following as indicative of a potential feature set:1. Profile Creation and Management2. Profile Image upload and management3. Profile Video upload and management4. Social Subscription services (friending)  5. Status update and management (micro-blog)6. Content update and management (blog)7. Content rating tools (favorites)8. Translation services for status and content updates9. Translated asynchronous messaging (message)10. Translated synchronous messaging (chat)11.  Human translation correction and revision of all user generated content12.  URL (web content) automated translation – (for users to share translated links from either English language or Arabic language web- with Meedan Transbrowser)13.  Integration with Facebook, Twitter, Wat-Wet (Arabic Twitter client), Maktoob, and other social networking site14.  Rich media translation tools for video transcription and translationIn addition to the features described above Meedan’s team would like to explore game-like interactions within the context of this engagement. Such ‘modules’ could include:1. ‘My Vocabulary’ tool - to allow students to create and share lists of words and phrases for language learning and to share these lists and translations with friends2. Language Learning games – creative tools to engage language learners3.3.	Project DeliverablesThe principal specialist products (Appendix A) will be:T1. 	User Testing PlanT2. 	Automated Integration Testing SystemS1. 	Project Framework DocumentS2.	Feature Definition (Functional Specification) DocumentS3. 	Final Technical Specification DocumentS4.	Final Project Specification with Detailed WireframesS5.	Alpha Platform ReleaseS6. 	Beta Platform ReleaseS7. 	Virtual Machine ImageS8. 	Platform Test PlanS9. 	Platform Test ReportS10. 	Technical Documentation The Management products will be:M1.	Project Initiation Document (PID)M2.	Monthly Progress ReportsM3.	End Stage Reports3.4.	ExclusionsThis project will exclude any hardware equipment, and is limited in its scope to the first phase of the platform design, development and implementation.3.5.	ConstraintsQFI will be responsible for addressing how stated project goals might be either pushed back or replaced in the context of outside opportunities related to other project partners, technologies, platforms. All project partners are aware that this work is very innovative and that the global education ecosystem is in a nascent state. Understanding this as a project constraint and adjusting deliverables and expectations will be a critical part of long term project success. 3.6.	Assumptions* QFI will manage and facilitate interactions with partners and end users as needed for development of specifications and ongoing development, such as facilitating introductions and access needed to preform user interviews, partner surveys, and other user testing and user research products. * QFI and their project partners will assume the responsibilities for all aspects of community engagement and management, including selecting, moderating and curating content on the platform.4.	Project Organisation StructureThe project management structure for the QFI Platform project is identified below. Notes on the project organisation and role descriptions are included in Appendix B.RolePositionOrganisationProject BoardProject Executive/Senior UserProject ManagerQFISenior SupplierCEOMeedanOther RolesProject Design LeadUI/UX LeadMeedan5.	Project ApproachWe enter this work with a conviction that our success is dependent on the capacity of the developed online platform to facilitate cross-language discussions and interactions in a way that accommodates current use patterns, bandwidth constraints, and identified needs of the platform’s end users.Meedan’s approach to this development will, therefore, be grounded in solid project research. We propose a development cycle with significant investment in research (user/partner interviews), persona development (archetypal system users), use case development, and, a final specification (wireframes, detailed information architecture, technical solution). In the development phase of the project we will leverage and contribute to the open source community; this is the most appropriate development approach for social software and provides Meedan’s clients with a platform that can be maintained and extended by a global community of developers. Additionally, the platform will be packaged as a virtual machine image to minimise technical requirements for its deployment and support.In terms of leveraging our own past resources, Meedan will capitalise on assets developed through our four-year technology partnerships with IBM research. These assets will form a foundation that includes machine translation processing (Machine Translation) services between Arabic and English,  and Hybrid (Human plus Machine) Translation workflow tools.  6.	Project TolerancesThe tolerance level of the project implementation schedule is +/- 1 month.7.	Project ControlsThe Project Control will ensure that, for each level within the Project Management Team, the next level of management can:* Monitor progress* Compare achievement with the Project Plan* Detect problems* Initiate corrective action* Authorise further work.The main controls of this project are:* Project Initiation Document: The Project Initiation Document (PID) is prepared and submitted to the Project Board.* Exception Reports: Exception Reports will be generated if the Project Manager forecasts that the tolerances agreed for any Stage, or the Project, will exceed those agreed with the Project Board.* End Stage Assessments: End Stage Assessments will be undertaken at the end of each Stage, and will be supported by the key deliverables of each Stage.* Highlight Reports: Highlight Reports will be provided by the Project Manager on a monthly basis to the Project Board.* Change/Issue Management: All issues raised will be recorded by the Project Manager in the Issue Log. The Project Manager will ensure that appropriate action is taken to resolve issues during the project, and any remaining issues outstanding at Project Closure are catered for in the Follow-On Action Recommendations Report.* Project Closure: A final project report will be provided at the end of the project.The Project Board will also monitor the environment outside the project and bring to the notice of those concerned, such as the Project Manager, any changes that affect the project.8.	Initial Project PlanA staged approach is being adopted for this project. Key activities for each stage are listed below. Major products for each stage are listed under "Deliverables" in section 2 of this PID.8.1.	Stage 1 - Solution DesignDuring this stage, the main activities undertaken comprise:* Producing a Project Initiation Document (PID) for the project* Gaining Project Board approval for the PID* Project Framework Document (User Test Plan)* Consulting Users to produce User Interview * Feature Definition (Functional Specification) Document* Final Technical Specification Document* Developing the Platform Test Plan* Final Project Specification with Detailed Wireframes (End of Stage 1)Deliverables: M1, M2, M3, S1, S2, S3, S4 S8 8.2.	Stage 2 - Solution DevelopmentDuring this stage, the main activities will comprise:* Developing, testing and implementing the Content Management System* Developing, testing and implementing the Translation Management Module* Developing, testing and implementing the Groups Management Module* Developing, testing and implementing the Social Networking Module* Producing initial content for the platform (QFI) * Alpha Platform Release (End of Stage 2)Deliverables:  M2, M3, S5 8.3.	Stage 3 - Iteration, Testing and ImplementationDuring this stage, the main activities will comprise:* Beta Release* Implementing Automated Integration Testing System* Executing the Platform Test Plan* Executing the User Testing Plan* Building the platform's Virtual Machine Image* Compiling the Platform Test Report* Compiling Technical Documentation* Phase 2 Strategy and Planning (TBD)Deliverables: M2, M3, S6, S7, S9, S10 8.4.	Stage 4 - Platform Launch and Closure of First PhaseDuring this stage, the main activities will comprise:* Compiling the Project Evaluation Report* Content translation* Bringing the technology development and documentation to a controlled closureDeliverables: M2, M3, M49.	Project Quality Plan9.1.	Quality ApproachInternal product reviews will be performed where appropriate, via independent checks of documents performed by the reviewer. Comments will be collated and resolved by the Project Manager. Approval will be provided by the Project Board on the basis of a review of the document and the comment/action list.9.2.	Quality ResponsibilitiesProject and quality assurance responsibilities are identified in the role descriptions provided in Appendix B.9.3.	Product Quality CriteriaQuality criteria for products are described in the relevant Product Descriptions in Appendix A.9.4.	Quality Control and Audit ProcessesFor project management products, informal quality review will be used to control quality, and auditing will be performed though the project’s Quality Log.Quality control for specialist products will be performed by the Senior User and Project Manager, who might decide to seek assistance from qualified evaluators for specific specialist products. Detailed quality control measures for each specialist product are defined in Product Descriptions in Appendix B. Quality assurance for specialist products will be performed through the project’s Quality Log.9.5.	Change Management ProceduresChanges to project deliverables once approved will be authorised by the authority identified in the Product Descriptions and notified to the funders. Changes to the project objectives, constraints, and product descriptions will be agreed by the Project Board and notified to the funders.9.6.	Configuration Management PlanVersion control will be applied to all key project document deliverables, as identified in the list of Product Descriptions included in Appendix A. The Project Manager will be responsible for the configuration management procedures. Project filing will be held electronically where available and as paper copies. The structure will be:\Stage ...\Control\Correspondence\Daily Log\Organisation\Plans\Project\Control\Organisation\Plans\Risk Log\Quality\Lessons Learned\Product Descriptions\Project Issues\Quality Checks\Specialist\Correspondence\Planning\ProductsAppendix A Product DescriptionsProduct Description for S1: Project FrameworkPurposeThis document will describe the Meedan development methodology for the clientCompositionThe Project Framework Document will be compiled by Meedan's design and technical team. DerivationNoneFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The document must cover all the design and dev processes for the platformQuality MethodDocument reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleSenior User, UI/UX LeadProduct Description for S2: Feature Definition (Functional Specification) DocumentPurposeThis document will describe the functional solution for the platform, but will not specify the technical approach. CompositionThe Solution Definition Document will be compiled by Meedan's design team based on the user interview and research phase of the project.  Derivation• Initial wireframes• User stories• Task flow• More user interviews• Revised personasFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The document must cover all the potential uses requested by the user and all of the stories chosen from the use casesQuality MethodDocument reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, Senior User, UI/UX LeadProduct Description for S3: Final Technical Specification DocumentPurposeThis document will describe the Technical solution that meets the needs of the functional requirements identified. CompositionDetailed information architecture, technical architecture. Derivation• Hardware Specification• Architecture • Platform/language decisions • Revised wireframesFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToSenior User in consultation with core stakeholders.Quality Criteria* The document must cover all the technical components for the phase 1 platformQuality MethodDocument reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleSenior User, Senior Supplier, Project ManagerProduct Description for S4: Final Project SpecificationPurposeThis document represents the detailed architecture and design of the project, and aims at facilitating the development, implementation and maintenance work.CompositionThe Project Specification includes:* System architecture* System use cases* Interaction design description and mock-ups* Logical data model* Detailed Wireframes* Solution development planDerivation* Functional Spec* Technical SpecFormat and PresentationWord document with diagrams and graphs in appropriate formatsAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The document must cover all the components required by the platform* The document must capitalise on the technology assets available at Meedan* The document must provide sufficient detail to facilitate development and implementation efforts* The document must take account of the Feature DefinitionQuality MethodDocument reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Board, UI/UX LeadProduct Description for S5a: Alpha Platform - Content Management SystemPurposeThe content management system will constitute the online platform on which conversations, translations and discussions will occur.CompositionThe Content Management System includes:* User authentication and permissioning module* Content publishing modules* Backup and restore modules* Usage tracking modules* Content moderation* Task allocationDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project SpecificationFormat and Presentation* System codebase, released under an open source license and stored in the project's repository in GitHub* Working instance installed and publicly accessible on the InternetAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The system must provide all functions as defined in the Solution Definition Document and Project Specification* The system must be properly documented* The system must be able to support bi-lingual content (Arabic and English)Quality MethodUser testing, functionality testing (informal walkthrough), code reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX Lead, Arabic-speaking user, English-speaking userProduct Description for S5(b): Alpha Platform - Translation Management ModulePurposeThis module will facilitate the translation of content on the dialogue platform and support the translation process workflow and management.CompositionThe Translation Management Module includes:* Translation task allocation* Billing and accounting* Email notification of new task assignments* Translation moderation and discussionDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project Specification* Content Management SystemFormat and Presentation* Module codebase, released under an open source license and stored in the project's repository in GitHub* Working instance installed and operational on the Content Management SystemAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The module must provide all functions as defined in the Solution Definition Document and Project Specification* The module must be properly documented* The module must integrate seamlessly within the Content Management System (S5a) Quality MethodUser testing, functionality testing (informal walkthrough), code reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX Lead, TranslatorProduct Description for S5(c): Alpha Platform - Group Management ModulePurposeThis module will provide the required features to support the formation and administration of user groups on the platform.CompositionThe Group Management Module includes:* Group formation* Groups membership and permissions* Group spaces and privacy settingsDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project Specification* Content Management SystemFormat and Presentation* Module codebase, released under an open source license and stored in the project's repository in GitHub* Working instance installed and operational on the Content Management SystemAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The module must provide all functions as defined in the Solution Definition Document and Project Specification* The module must be properly documented* The module must integrate seamlessly within the Content Management System (S5a) Quality MethodUser testing, functionality testing (informal walkthrough), code reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX Lead, Arabic-speaking user, English-speaking userProduct Description for S5(d): Alpha Platform - Social Networking ModulePurposeThis module will provide social networking features and functions to increase and stimulate interaction among the platform users.CompositionThe Social Networking Module includes:* Friend management* Subscription feeds* Content sharing* Private messagingDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project Specification* Content Management SystemFormat and Presentation* Module codebase, released under an open source license and stored in the project's repository in GitHub* Working instance installed and operational on the Content Management SystemAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The module must provide all functions as defined in the Solution Definition Document and Project Specification* The module must be properly documented* The module must integrate seamlessly within the Content Management System (S3)Quality MethodUser testing, functionality testing (informal walkthrough), code reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX Lead, Arabic-speaking user, English-speaking userProduct description for S6: Beta PlatformThe Beta release will simply be an iteration of the Alpha release with bug fixes, feature changes due to user feedback, and improvements for speed and stability.Product description for S7: Virtual Machine ImagePurposeThe purpose of the Virtual Machine Image is to facilitate installation and maintenance of live instances of the platform, while minimising administration overhead and costs.CompositionAn Amazon Machine Image (AMI) compatible image containing the platform and its software pre-requisitesDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project Specification* Content Management System* Translation Management Module* Groups Management Module* Social Networking ModuleFormat and Presentation* Virtual Machine Image file* Relevant documentationAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The virtual image should be fully functional and can be installed on compatible cloud computing servicesQuality MethodFunctionality testingQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX LeadProduct Description for S8: Platform Test PlanPurposeThe test plan aims at facilitating organising the testing and evaluation of the developed platform and its components.CompositionTest plan for all user stories (use cases) for the platform and its componentsDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project SpecificationFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The test plan should be complete and covers all the designed features of the platform and its componentsQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX LeadProduct Description for S9: Platform Test ReportPurposeThe report will document all the system test results and confirms the achievements of the designed system requirements.CompositionDetailed results of all system tests for the platform and its components (derived from the Platform Test Plan).Derivation* Project Specification* Content Management System* Translation Management Module* Groups Management Module* Social Networking Module* Virtual Machine Image* Platform Test PlanFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The test report should be complete and covers all the tests included in the Platform Test Plan.* Test results should be provided at a sufficient level of detail to enable validation of the resultsQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX LeadProduct description for S10: Technical DocumentationPurposeThis product documents all the technical aspects of the system to facilitate support, maintenance and future development.CompositionDetailed technical documentation of the platform and its componentsDerivation* Project Specification* Content Management System* Translation Management Module* Groups Management Module* Social Networking Module* Virtual Machine ImageFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToProject Manager, UI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The Technical Documentation must be complete and cover all aspects of the system and its componentsQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, UI/UX LeadProduct description for S11: Initial Platform ContentPurposeTo outline terms of use and enable discussions to begin to take place on the platform.CompositionStatic text (in Arabic and English):* Terms of Use and Copyright Terms* Privacy Policy* Moderation Policy* About, Partners, and Support Us pages* Frequently Asked Questions and User Tutorials* Sacred texts for reference* Archive of texts of religious relevance for future discussionDerivationNoneFormat and PresentationEnglish and Arabic text with relevant hyperlinks in Google DocAllocated ToProgram Manager from QFIQuality Criteria* The content must cover all aspects of the project* The content must be readable and easy to understandQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleArabic-speaking user, English-speaking user, Project ManagerProduct description for S12: Project Evaluation ReportPurposeTo evaluate project implementation, expenditure and outcomes for funders and partners.CompositionProject Evaluation DocumentDerivation* Project Initiation Document (PID)* Project Specification* Platform Test Report* Technical Documentation* Partner Programme StrategyFormat and PresentationWord Document with accompanying Excel spreadsheetsAllocated ToProject ManagerQuality Criteria* The report must cover all project activities* The report must document the impact of the project on its target audience* The report must document the partnerships that accrued throughout the workshopQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleProject Manager, Senior User, Senior Supplier, Project ExecutiveProduct description for T1: User Testing PlanPurposeThe User Testing Plan aims to facilitate the user testing process for evaluating and validating the user interface and experience.CompositionTest plan for the different aspects of the platform's user interface and user experienceDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project Specification* Content Management System* Translation Management Module* Groups Management Module* Social Networking ModuleFormat and PresentationWord documentAllocated ToUI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The User Testing Plan must be complete and covers all aspects of the system interface and user interactionQuality MethodInformal reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleUI/UX LeadProduct description for T2: Automated Integration Testing SystemPurposeThe purpose of this system is to support and facilitate integration testing of the project's software products.CompositionAutomated Integration Testing SystemDerivation* Solution Definition Document* Project SpecificationFormat and PresentationAutomated Integration Testing System installed and operationalAllocated ToUI/UX LeadQuality Criteria* The Automated Integration Testing System must be compatible with the programming languages and applications utilised by the projectQuality MethodFunctional reviewQuality ToleranceNot applicableQuality Check Skill/PeopleUI/UX LeadAppendix BProject RolesROLE DESCRIPTIONRole:Project ExecutiveName:This individual oversees the Program Manager for QFI - Maggie SalemPrime responsibility:The Executive is ultimately responsible for the project, supported by the Senior User and Senior Supplier. The Executive has to ensure that the project properly balances the demands of business, User and Supplier.Responsible to:Upper Management of QFISpecific Responsibilities:* ensure a tolerance is set for the project* authorise customer expenditure and set Stage tolerances* approve the End Project Report and Lessons Learned Report* organise and chair Project Board meetings* recommend future action on the project if tolerances are exceeded* overall business assurance, ROLE DESCRIPTIONRole:Senior UserName:Project Manager from QFI - Chris DubiaPrime responsibility:The Senior User is responsible for the specification of the needs of all those who will use the final product, user liaison with the Project Team, and for monitoring that the solution will meet user needs within the agreed constraints. The role represents the interests of all those who will use the final products, those for whom the product will achieve an objective, or those who will use the project to deliver benefits. The Senior User role commits user resources, and monitors products against requirements.Responsible to:Project ExecutiveSpecific Responsibilities:* ensure the desired outcome of the project is specified* make sure the progress towards the outcome required by users remains consistent from the user perspective* promote and maintain focus on the desired project outcome* ensure that any user resources required for the project are made available* approve Product Descriptions and ensure that products are signed off once completed* prioritise and contribute user opinions on Project Board decisions on whether to implement recommendations on proposed changes* resolve user requirements and priority conflict* provide the user view on recommended follow-up actions* brief and advise user management on all matters concerning the project* ensure the testing of the product at all stages has appropriate user representation* ensure quality control procedures are used correctly to ensure products meet user requirements* ensure user liaison is effectiveROLE DESCRIPTIONRole:Senior SupplierName:Ed BicePrime responsibility:Represent the interests of those designing, developing, facilitating, procuring, implementing, operating and maintaining the project products. Has the authority to commit or acquire supplier resources.Responsible to:Project ExecutiveSpecific Responsibilities:* agree objectives for specialist activities* make sure progress towards the outcome remains consistent from the supplier perspective* promote and maintain focus on the desired outcome from the point of view of supplier management* ensure the supplier resources required for the project are made available* approve Product Descriptions for specialist products* contribute supplier opinions on whether to implement recommendations on proposed changes* resolve supplier requirements and priority conflicts* brief non-technical management on specialist aspects of the project* advise on the selection of specialist strategy, design, and methods* monitor potential changes and their impact on the correctness, completeness, and integrity of products against their Product Descriptions from a specialist point of view* monitor any risks in the specialist and production aspects of the project* ensure quality control procedures are used correctly, so the product adheres to specialist requirementsROLE DESCRIPTIONRole:Project ManagerName:Ed BicePrime responsibility:The Project Manager has the authority to run the project on a day-to-day basis on behalf of the Project Board within the constraints laid down by the board. The Project Manager’s prime responsibility is to ensure that the project produces the required products, to the required standard of quality and within the specified constraints of time and cost.Responsible to:Project BoardSpecific Responsibilities:* manage the production of the required products* direct and motivate the project team* plan and monitor the project* prepare Project, Stage and, if necessary, Exception reports and agree them with the Project Board* manage the risks, including the development of contingency plans* take responsibility for overall progress and use of resources and initiate corrective action where necessary* be responsible for change control and any required configuration management* prepare and report to the Project Board through Highlight Reports and End Stage Reports* liaise with the Project Board or its appointed Project Assurance roles to assure the overall direction and integrity of the project* prepare the Lessons Learned Report* prepare any Follow-on Action Recommendations required* prepare the End Project Report* be responsible for project administration65